Procrastination requires the self-
abuse. It requires the questioning of
self.
>> That takes some deep unlearning.
>> If you couldn't be hard on yourself,
how much procrastination would happen?
>> What if the pro procrastination is a
signal that our priorities are just way
off?
>> It bends the mind to understand that our
agenda is not always the most effective
thing. That's actually what
procrastination is. It's not wanting to
feel a particular way.
Welcome to this week's episode of The
Art of Accomplishment, where we explore
living the life you want with enjoyment
and ease. Today, we're talking about
procrastination. We're going to talk
about what makes people procrastinate,
how to get out of procrastination, and
how working on procrastination can be an
unlock for everything in your life.
Enjoy. Joe, I've known you for most of a
decade, and I've never seen you
procrastinate.
And you talk a lot about how you used to
procrastinate all the time. And I I
never knew that version of Joe, but I
know this version of Joe. And how how
did we get here from there?
>> To understand procrastination
was a journey. And the more I understood
it, the less procrastination happened.
So for me, the journey of not
procrastinating anymore wasn't unders
was just simply to understand it. And
there's different aspects of it that I
understood over time, but generally it
was very much just understanding what
actually procrastination is, how it
works, what it did to my system. And and
so that that really is how it all
unfolded for me. But yeah, you're right.
I never feel like I'm procrastinating. I
feel like I prioritize all the time, but
I do not feel like I'm procrastinating
really ever.
>> Yeah. So for those who are watching who
are like, "Okay, well this guru guy who
says he doesn't procrastinate." Like
let's like drill in because there's
definitely things that you don't do.
There's things you do do over time
things get done. That happens for
everybody. You could call it
procrastination or prioritization.
>> So let's really define what what are you
calling procrastination when you say
that you don't do it.
>> Yeah. So procrastination is telling
yourself you should do something and
then not doing it or telling yourself
this is an important thing to do that
you um it would be important to do
today. Maybe there's not even a should
attached and then not doing it.
>> That so procrastination doesn't happen
unless you tell yourself that you're
supposed to have done it.
>> So there's some sort of expectation
versus like what's happening.
>> Yeah. Going on.
>> More specifically, there's some sort of
self abuse going on
>> as well.
>> Say more on that. So the the a great
question to think about it is if you
couldn't be self-abusive, if you
couldn't be hard on yourself, if you
couldn't shame yourself, if you couldn't
ride yourself like a shitty ass boss,
how much procrastination would happen?
Just generally, how much would you be
procrastinating?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, I'm checking things
things in my life that I've done or not
done. I mean, there there's let's just
reel into one example. There's certain
things that are just really
uncomfortable to do.
>> Yes.
>> And maybe I know I'm going to do it and
then I'm going to feel exhausted and
maybe I don't want to feel exhausted
after I do it. So I do it a different
time when I'm prepared to feel
exhausted. Is that procrastination?
>> Right. Yeah. Or is that prioritization
without self- abuse? Which is it?
>> Right. So it's telling myself I should
have gotten the thing done and being
self-judgmental about the way that I
prioritized might become now I've
procrastinated in in my world. I've
procrastinated. Correct. And so, so what
I'm hearing some people probably
thinking in the audience is some version
of great, so Joe, you do whatever you
want and you convince yourself not to do
these things that are important and
therefore
you're not you're not procrastinating,
but you're really procrastinating. Like
I can like I can see somebody bypass.
Are you just saying you're not
procrastinating, but you're just it's
also prioritization. Like I send you an
email or a text and you tend to respond
in a reasonably close fashion, but I
know you're extremely busy. I experience
myself often being like, "Oh, I there's
a ball that was dropped."
>> And I I notice that I don't experience
you with a whole lot of self-judgment
around a ball that was dropped, for
example. There will be things and you'll
just kind of own this was the priority,
that wasn't the priority. I've joked a
bunch of times about how we haven't done
a procrastination episode. We've been
talking about it for years. And in my
system, I play with the idea that we're
procrastinating on it, cuz that's kind
of fun and ironic.
>> But also, you've never really volied
back with that joke.
>> No. Yeah.
>> Cuz you're just like, "No, I'm not."
>> It doesn't even feel like it. Let's go
through what it means to not
procrastinate. Let's go through and and
see what
>> like how procrastination unfolds and so
that it doesn't happen in your life.
Procrastination is a great gateway
because as you learn to to allow
procrastination to not be
procrastination and that changes what it
does is it frees up a tremendous amount
of energy to get a whole bunch of stuff
done really really uh consistently
getting it done well.
>> Yeah. And and it can be sneaky. You know
over the course of the years as I've
been doing more of this work
>> Yeah. I've had to like my mind has had
to catch up to the ways that I've
changed. Yeah. And I look at what I'm
doing and it might be different from
what I was expecting to be doing, but
I'll realize that I'm actually doing
what was really important to me. I'm
actually getting done the things that
matter and it's effortless. It's
easeful. Yes.
>> Thoughtless uh
>> thoughtless in the sense that I'm not
like thinking that I should do it.
>> Right. Yeah.
>> And and it it does just happen
naturally. It seems like there's a
natural rhythm that we can follow that
is just a different track than the one
where we're telling ourselves what we
should be doing and then we're
>> calling it procrastination.
>> Most people do 100 things a day without
procrastination. The ones who call
themselves procrastinators and maybe
they procrastinate on two or three
things but then they define themselves
as a procrastinator. But the reality is
I have never met somebody who's actually
a procrastinator
for the majority of who they are. they
are actually doing stuff all the time.
>> It's just they're procrastinating on a
couple of things. And that's a really
good clue as to what makes us
procrastinate
because those particular things you'll
notice that there's a feeling that you
get from them or a way that you're
approaching them that is different than
all the things that you actually do. So,
so let's start there. There's studies
that show that
procrastination is most likely, and my
experience of this is direct, that it is
really the avoidance of an emotional
state. That's actually what
procrastination is. It's not not doing
something, it's not wanting to feel a
particular way.
>> So often times when I'm working with
people and we want to undo the
procrastination, we just change the
emotional state of the doing. So that's
a big part of it is whatever the if
you're procrastinating, there's an
emotional state of the doing of the
thing that feels like crap. Either
you're worried about people's judgment
or you're worried about um being perfect
or you're worried about the results,
maybe you're going to have to feel
something if you're successful or feel
something if you fail. And so if you
actually address that emotional reality
underneath or change the way you do it
like an iterative process,
then procrastination just starts
disappearing. If I'm trying to make a
perfect website, it's not going to be as
good as a website where I can iterate. I
try I do it, it feels good, and then I
redo it, and then I redo it, and then I
redo it, and now I have something that's
great. And there's a wonderful there's a
wonderful thing and that this was really
important to me on on how I I I learned
how to be so creative so consistently so
fast and it came from this is that you
know you you do your first pass of
something like you're a three-year-old
plane and then you become an like a
exacting editor of every pass after.
Right? You you learn how to just get out
of your head, get out of judgment, just
let whatever is going to come come and
then take as many passes as you need
until you think, "Wow, that thing is
amazing."
>> Just the same way when we started the
podcast we did.
>> I was going to just say that. Yeah.
>> Tons of them until we're like a handful
of them out.
>> Yeah, exactly. Here now this feels
great.
>> Yeah, it's fascinating. There seems to
be like various phases of it. Like
there's a way that if something the more
pressure there is the more
procrastination happens because pressure
is uncomfortable. Pressure is tension.
Pressure is constriction.
>> Pressure on yourself is there's all
these consequences that you're creating
in your world that you have to avoid.
And so the more pressure there is the
more likely you are to procrastinate.
But often times people to get through
procrastination will create enough
pressure to push them all the way
through. And
>> I haven't seen that. I know that that's
the story, right?
>> But I actually haven't seen that.
>> Well, I mean, like
>> I've seen them push enough pressure to
start,
>> but I've never seen them in any kind of
long project, maybe cleaning the house,
they can build enough pressure to to
clean the house or something. But as far
as like a big project like starting a
business or something like that.
>> Yeah. Big sustained projects are a bit
different. Doing a paper last minute
because you have like 30 minutes left
before you turn it in.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. And
>> because that's actually what what that
is doing is it's making you present.
>> Right?
>> So again, it's not that the pressure has
been built. It's because if you have 30
minutes to write your paper, you're not
going to be in your head judging
yourself. You're not you don't have time
to be all looping around trying to make
it perfect. You got x amount of time.
I'm going to just do what comes out. I'm
just going to
>> So, there's things that feel
>> Yes.
>> high pressure, and then there's things
that really are high pressure. Like, I
never
>> I never procrastinated on opening my
parachute in 3,000 jumps.
>> Right. Right.
>> Sometimes I would delay till the last
possible second for the extra thrill,
but I wouldn't
>> procrastinate be like, "Oh, I should
have done that sooner."
>> So, isn't that fascinating? So, if you
know you're going to do the thing, you
don't call it procrastination.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. you know you're going to open up
that parachute.
>> So if you didn't know you were going to
open up that parachute, then you'd be
like, "Why am I procrastinating? Why am
I procrastinating? Why am I as you're
falling to the ground, but instead
you're like, "No, I'm going to push this
thing. I'm going to like seek out as
much of a thrill as I possibly can
without calling it procrastination."
>> Again, it's it procrastination requires
the self- abuse. It requires the
questioning of self,
questioning your capacity to get it
done. questioning if you're good enough,
questioning there has to be some sort of
self- abuse in there for the
procrastination to occur.
>> Yeah. And that's what made things
different in jumping because in that
case, like as you said, I'm just in the
flow. I'm in presence. I'm just doing
what's happening. And when I'm writing
my first invoice trying to figure out
how to run a business when I'm 19, I'm
there's a million ways that I could be
afraid of getting that wrong and then
judge myself for it. And that is going
to be a target for procra for the
self-judgment of procrastination.
>> Yes. Right. And so that that's the other
thing. If if we are doing something
that's absolutely new, that's a place
where we're more likely to
procrastinate. We're going to tell
ourselves we should do it and we are not
going to do it.
>> Right? And often times if you're
managing people, one of the things
you'll notice is they'll do the thing
they know how to do way before they do
the thing they don't know how to do. And
and this really can screw up a process,
>> which is so many businesses. You see so
many pitch decks where it's just like,
>> gosh,
>> and voila. And you're like, what? But
what about this step right there, right?
>> What about Yeah. Yeah.
>> How about or you see it in people where
they'll do everything they know how to
do and then they'll do the thing they
don't know how to do last, if they do it
at all.
>> So typically what I see is a tech CEO
who's really techoriented never move
into sales.
>> And it can kill companies. Some
companies really require that sales or
marketing and it'll kill the company
because that's the thing they didn't
know that they didn't feel good about
rather than doing that first.
>> Mhm.
>> Which is far more successful because
then you know what the customer actually
wants because you've tried to sell them
it and then you're building something
that's for the customer instead of
something that you thought was a good
idea for the customer.
>> Yeah. Which makes me wonder how like how
many unfinished projects is this the uh
what's happening behind the scenes,
right? Is that people did everything
they knew how to do up until the point
where they got to the thing that they
didn't know
>> and then they procrastinate on that
thing and the project just sits undone.
>> Right. Yeah. And so so to me this is so
this is the second part. So the first
part of ending procrastination in my
life was understanding that it was
emotional avoidance.
So, and the the the solution to that was
what do I have to do to make this
enjoyable?
What's the mind state, the attitude that
I have to do to make this enjoyable? And
generally, it was just
non-judgmentalness.
It was just being like a 5-year-old. It
was just plain.
>> And that's that's another interesting
aspect of what people often call
procrastination could also be called
creative incubation. It can also be
called waiting until the sequence and
the timing and the rhythm is asking for
the thing to be done.
>> Yeah. As a matter of fact, there's a
huge amount of evidence around the
creation of epiphany. And I think it's
like Newberg who wrote like the
enlightenment brain or something like
that. We'll put it in the show notes.
And uh one really importart important
part of doing creativity is trying to
solve the problem for a while. And one
really part important part is to rest.
>> Mhm. is to not do things to have that
cycle. And once you start realizing
that, then it's not your brain telling
you to do it. You're actually working on
a a good cycle, a good rhythm that
actually works. First part is realize,
oh, I'm avoiding an emotional state. How
do I have to enjoy the process that I'm
I'm supposedly procrastinating?
>> So, that was one of the big aha moments.
But the second aha moment was to do
that. Most of the time I require it
requires an iterative mindset which is
the job isn't to get it done on a
timeline. The job is to iterate on it.
So knowing that I can't particularly
make a mistake where I can't
particularly fail.
>> Mhm.
>> Where this is just an iPhone one then
there's an iPhone 2. This is the
connection course one. This is the
connection course two. We're just
constantly iterating to make it better
and better and better and better and
better and never an expectation that
it's supposed to be perfect or good
enough.
>> And you could say you're setting it up
so that you're just getting positive
reinforcement no matter what you do. You
get positively reinforced for making
forward progress of any kind and play
rather than setting it up where you only
get positive reinforcement if you do it
perfectly or right or according to
>> what you were told you should do or what
you learned as a kid would be right.
Right. and then negative reinforce or
punishment
>> right
>> for anything else. So which leads me to
the third thing you can get a mindset
shift but you can't stop people from
judging you
>> right
>> however what you can do is you can
actually look forward to the judgment
>> and that's
like that's amazing so the first thing
is if somebody triggers me with their
judgment then there's some freedom that
I know I can find
right so somebody judges me and I have
no problem with it somebody else judges
me and it tweaks me Mhm.
>> Because if I get triggered, I'm going to
learn something. Then what on earth
would make me scared of being judged?
Like
>> scared of posting or scared of sharing
or speaking in front of people.
>> Exactly. And and and and they should
judge me. Like that judgment is actually
like part of the conversation.
>> Now on one level, I know that if
someone's judging me, there's just
something that they're not feeling. But
let's say they judge me or disagree or
they have discernment, any of those
things. That's part of the conversation.
Meaning, oh, I'm not reaching them. I'm
not uh elucidating my ideas in a way
that is useful to them. I am triggering
something in them without addressing it
first.
>> So, each one of those things actually
helps me refine. It's like hitting bad
notes when you're practicing the guitar.
Oh my god, I hit a bad note. Oh my god,
I hit a bad note. That's going to be
horrible.
>> Like, oh wait, no, that didn't sound
good. Let's try it again. Oh, that
didn't Oh, there it is. Okay. Boom,
boom, boom, boom, boom.
>> I can't actually do an art form without
judgment and get better.
>> Either my own or somebody else is
discernment, I think, is better than
judgment. But yeah,
>> so I'm I look forward to it. Like, oh,
great. I there's a way that I can get
better
>> at at at what my what I'm here to do. At
the same time, there's sometimes where I
just clearly am like, yeah, I'm okay
with not reaching that segment of
people. I'm just I'm okay with that.
like that. That's not what I'm here to
do. I'm not here to try to reach that
segment. I'm here to try to reach this
segment. So, for instance, if somebody
isn't interested in doing the work of
transformation, I'm not interested if
they care or don't care. What I care
about is the judgment of somebody who
really wants the transformation.
>> So, that so that's the third thing. So,
the first thing was what's the negative
emotion I'm trying to
avoid? How do I get it enjoyable? That
led me to iterative mindset. And then
that led me to I get to look forward to
judgment, which allowed the the that
final part of procrastination to shift.
>> Yeah. And one thing I'm noticing the way
that you're talking about looking
forward to judgment isn't in a
masochistic way. It's not it's not
setting yourself up so that when you hit
a wrong note on the guitar, you get
electric shock and then like let's play
this harder.
>> Yeah. It's about freedom.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's about uh that's a place where
I get to be more free, where my ego gets
to be a little bit more
dissolved or integrated, however,
whatever word you want to use.
>> Yeah.
>> So, it's like it's freaking fantastic.
>> So, we've been talking a lot about
procrastination within the task that's
being done or like how how you're
approaching how you're experiencing the
task, the self- judgment or the
projected judgment of others. What if
it's just not the thing to do? What if
what if the pro procrastination is a
signal that our priorities are just way
off and how do we tune into that signal
and discern
>> procrastination is always that's not the
thing to do that there's only one
question is it do I do it differently or
or is that actually the right priority
>> right and so and the self abuse confuses
both of those two you it's really hard
to read the signal of either of those
two if you have self abuse Because if
you're abusing yourself, it's really
hard to listen to yourself, right? If
I'm at a job and I have a boss
whispering in my ear, you should do
that. Why didn't you do this? What?
Like, oh my god, that's screwed. Oh,
that's [__] up. Oh, what? That website
sucks. Blah blah blah blah blah. Really
hard to listen to myself.
But if I listen, if I learn to listen to
myself, it's, oh, the way I'm doing that
doesn't feel right. That's like great
information. or wow I really my head
thinks I should do it but something in
me is telling me
not to do it and that was the thing is
when I stopped beating myself up which
is I was what I was going to go to was
the final stage
as that negative self-t talk in my voice
the voice in my head with that negative
selft talk just
did not become this repetitive negative
selft talk in my head as that
disappeared
All of a sudden,
like there was just no idea of
procrastination. And when that occurred,
then all of a sudden I could see things
and go, "Oh crap, I'm I'm not doing
that. What makes me not do that?"
>> There was a wisdom. There was an
intuition there.
>> That's right. And and typically what
would happen is something else would
fall into place that made everything
else easier.
>> And it was a recognition that I just
wasn't working on the first domino.
And so what I notice is people who do
not procrastinate in general pick the
right first domino better than the
people who procrastinate.
>> Not because they're procrastinating, but
because they're beating themselves up,
right? Because procrastination requires
that self- abuse.
>> Yeah. And also it seems like
procrastination can be a strategy for to
kind of hide other effective strategies
too. For example, when I was early in
doing like customer service for I had a
whole bunch of website clients and I'd
get questions from them. I started to
learn that if I didn't respond within
the first 24 hours, often they resolved
their own problem,
>> right?
>> So, I just started running a pattern of
just not responding for a day and seeing
if the question was still alive. Yeah,
>> there was a deeper wisdom that was just
there's a there's a better way here that
involves non-action
>> that leads to a smoother solution
>> and I could operationalize that in a far
more effective and you know honest way
with my clients I learned
>> than that.
>> But right that's right. So often times
we're learning the natural rhythm of
things and that requires some experiment
that requires some not doing and some
doing and then you find that thing. It's
never procrastination unless you're
beating yourself up. So
>> yeah, something that's coming up for me
as we're talking is it seems like if I'm
in the story, if I'm in the world view
that I'm procrastinating, I can't be in
wonder. There's a way that
procrastinating is like a form of
knowing. I've decided how things should
be.
>> That's right. There's so many you could
look at so many different of our
episodes probably and be like this is
some form of somebody's decided how they
should be and things are like different
from that and rather than discovering
what's happening and being in the wonder
with it they've decided something else.
So procrastination seems like one form
of that.
>> Yes. where if I've decided what my
priorities should be in advance and I'm
not living alive in the moment with my
body's natural rhythms with my, you
know, energy cycles throughout the day,
then I can tell myself I'm
procrastinating.
>> Yeah.
>> But it's kind of either or.
>> Yeah. Yeah. The great the great thought
process I love around this one is um
this cool thing which is if you are in
jail, you're going up for parole and you
do parole before lunch, you have
something like a 20% I don't know
exactly more likelihood of getting
parole than if it's after lunch.
>> Mhm.
>> So
if you were the parole person, is it
procrastinating to say, "Oh, let's do
after lunch tomorrow morning." It's like
it bends the mind to understand that our
agenda is not always the most effective
thing,
>> right?
And when you understand that, then you
produce more quicker,
better. And the the most important part
is what's what I've just learned, and
I've just learned this somewhat
recently. It allows me to have a lot
more iterations, which makes me learn
much quicker than most folks,
>> right? So for instance, right now Tara
is learning how to do rapid coaching
and
I also learned how to do rapid coaching
and so I made sure that it happened in a
container where everybody could be well
taken care of and that was a priority.
But oh yeah, let's let's just do tons of
these. It's okay that people think I
suck. Let's do tons of these.
And that's what has allowed me to get
really good at it is because
if I'm doing stuff in a way where I'm
not worried about judgment, if I'm doing
it in a highly iterative way, if I'm
doing it where I'm doing the part that I
don't understand first,
not not this that last, that makes me
all more productive, that makes it so
that I get a lot more stuff done. So,
we've been talking a lot about
procrastination on like a personal
level. And something about what you're
talking about here is bringing up for me
how how it can happen in an organization
or in a relationship where even if
you're not procrastinating, you don't
see yourself as procrastinating. Let's
say you're just a kid in a family. Yeah.
>> And you're doing your kid thing, you're
playing, which is exactly what you
should be doing at certain stages of
kiddom.
>> Yeah. And let's say you have a parent
who thinks you should be doing something
different.
>> Yeah. Like you as a kid.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Yeah. Hence why I brought that
up.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So
>> personal experience.
>> Yeah. Tell us the story. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So I mean the first thing that
comes to mind is just the visceral
experience of sitting in a classroom
looking outside at the day wanting to go
play. And so there's this mismatch
>> between what I naturally would do and
what
>> you could say
>> people older and perhaps more
experienced in the world might have
guided me towards doing to prepare
myself for the world I was going to live
in did guide me yeah
>> pressured you criticize you for
>> with pressure and criticism sometimes
with invitation and creativity and
really listening you know some mixture
of those two things
>> but I definitely experienced a lot in my
childhood particularly with the public
school system.
>> Yeah.
>> The internalization of the idea that
whatever I want isn't right. So you can
almost
draw that conclusion at that stage that
the thing that I do want is probably not
the thing.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you're then you're [__]
>> Right.
>> That takes some deep unlearning.
>> That's right. That's right. Well, then
that that's the unlearning that helps
you see through the critical voice in
your head.
>> Right.
>> That's that unlearning. the unlearning
of oh I can actually trust myself and
that the
critical selft talk is actually slowing
me down and making me less effective
it's not doing what it was supposed to
do and so or it's a very ineffective way
of doing what it's supposed to do
>> that is correct the deep unlearning and
is it I mean it's what made us
you know we wouldn't shame our kids
because that's teaching them not to
listen to themselves we didn't
um say, "Great job. That was amazing
that we wouldn't reward our kids for
stuff that we wanted them to do because
that was also helping them not listen to
themselves."
>> Yeah.
>> And so for us, it was like an incredibly
important thing to
>> to do that. But yeah, that's right.
That's
>> that's kind of the core of it, right?
That's the core of self- abuse and
therefore that's the core of
procrastination,
>> right? So if all my procrastination is
the result of my own self-criticism,
self- judgment, which is you could even
say it's like the residue of misguided
guidance,
>> right,
>> that I've received, which is to say
>> somebody who in their best heart
>> wanted the best for me and they were
scared and they because of that fear
they felt they had to control.
>> Yeah, that's right.
>> And lost connection with me, lost
attunement. That's right. And then I
felt managed and learned that I couldn't
trust myself and
>> and or them and
>> or them and or them.
>> And and so there's actually like a lot
of the funny thing is there's a lot of
research about this particular thing,
your particular thing, which is
>> it's really not a great thing for a kid
to learn intellectual stuff until they
have leed their body or their will that
they've like fully um uh gotten into
their body. So they do this test where
occupational therapists will do it where
they'll have a kid draw a picture of
themselves and they start by just
drawing a head and then they draw a head
and a body and then they draw a head and
a body and hands or arms and legs and
then hands and then feet and it
basically tells you how much of their
body they actually feel, how much
they're in their body.
>> It turns out it's no good to teach
people the head piece before the body
piece. And so it is that fear and
therefore that control that happens. And
and and
the solution to it
for your for the parents who did it or
the teachers who did it was to listen to
you deeply. The solution
for you now for anybody now is to listen
to themselves deeply. The solution, the
attunement,
the the solution for
procrastination on some level is to
actually listen to yourself really
deeply. Not the internal self negative
abuse, but actually listen to yourself
really deeply about like, oh, what what
would make this feel great? What do I
need to do first?
>> Yeah,
>> that is actually the solution in all the
levels of it.
>> Yeah. And I think the part of the the
trap here or the local optima people
find themselves stuck in is that they
sit down for a project and if they look
into themselves the first thing they're
going to find is the discomfort. They're
going to find all those years of builtup
grief, anger,
shame, fear. And so it's much easier
just to look to the head and say, "What
does the head think I should do?" And
then you end up with the should,
>> right? which is very different from just
really checking in and like what if I
check in with my entire body, with my
being right now, what holistically
is the next movement. Yeah.
>> What is the next brush stroke?
>> What's the next word?
>> Yeah. And the amazing thing is it
actually doesn't take that long.
Meaning, if you're telling yourself you
should do something
and you're procrastinating, it's going
to take you a lot longer than it is to
actually feel the emotion. Even you
might not get through all the grief, but
just like grieve for an hour and then go
see what it's like to do the work.
>> Yeah. Or just hang out in the discomfort
of the fear of judgment.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Which is I think there's a distinction
to be made there because somebody could
hear this and say, "Oh, I just need to
sit down and feel all the judgment then
which could lead to actually just
judging oneself and like really like
feeling the internalization of the
projected judgment that they're afraid
of." And there's something I think
that's a little bit different which is
>> Oh yeah. It's feeling what happens in
you if someone judges you.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Not just sit down and judge
yourself really really hard.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Right. Yeah. That disconnection is
painful and sad and it reminds you and
rhymes with the disconnection that
happened to you when somebody was
telling you you had to be perfect or do
something that didn't actually
correspond with who you were.
>> And that's what we're actually scared
of. The judgment that we got from our
parents or from our teachers. It's like,
oh, we don't want to feel that kind of
abandonment again.
>> And so, feel the abandonment, feel the
lack of connection, and then the
judgment becomes less and less scary.
>> Or you can abandon yourself a thousand
times a day
>> by procrastinating.
>> Yeah.
>> Awesome. What a pleasure. Um, so I
actually have a a couple of uh exercises
that I think are really useful for
procrastination. So people who are
working on this stuff actually have a
couple of experiments because there's
one thing to think about it in your head
and to have this understanding. But
there's a whole another level when you
actually start doing some of those
experiments. Everybody, if you're
listening and you want those experiments
that Joe's talking about and some other
resources on procrastination, you can
check out the link in the show notes or
you can also scan the QR code on your
screen right now. Thank you, Joe.
>> Yeah, man.
>> It's a lovely episode. I'm glad we
finally got around to it. And when I say
finally, I say because it was just the
right time.
>> You know, the here's the crazy part. It
was
>> the crazy part is it was because we did
we had the YouTube video on
procrastination that went really big.
And now we actually have all those
people who are interested in
procrastination can listen to this
podcast which they probably would never
listen to otherwise because it would
have been what episode if we did it the
first time it would have been like
episode 40 or something like that.
>> Everything in its time.
>> Yeah.